Sector starting points Telco Finance Signage Robotics Gateways Organisations Fully managed OpenStack Kubernetes Resources Webinars Tutorials Case studies White papers Docs Training Blog Press centre Support Enterprise support Security Certification Consulting Ubuntu OpenStack Kubernetes Canonical Livepatch Snapcraft Charming Tutorials If you are already running Ubuntu - you can upgrade with the Software Updater Burn a DVD on Ubuntu, mac os, or Windows. Create a bootable USB stick on Ubuntu, mac os, or Windows Installation guides for Ubuntu Desktop and Ubuntu Server You can learn how to try Ubuntu before you install Read the docs Read the official docs for Ubuntu Desktop, Ubuntu Server, and Ubuntu Core Other ways to download Ubuntu is available via BitTorrents and via a minimal network installer that allows you to customise what is installed, such as additional languages. You can also find older releases. Ubuntu flavours Find new ways to experience Ubuntu, each with their own choice of default applications and settings. Kubuntu Lubuntu Mythbuntu Ubuntu Budgie Ubuntu Kylin Ubuntu MATE Ubuntu Studio Xubuntu Selecting the optimum OS for your robot Analysing the factors for development and production stages. CIO Guide to multi-cloud operations Choosing a cost effective cloud architecture Financial Services Month Join Canonical for a deep dive into the rise of multi-cloud in the financial services industry. Latest news from our blog Canonical’s Current Security Certifications 26 September 2018 Ubuntu does Kubernetes 20 September 2018 Announcing Extended Security Maintenance for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS – “Trusty Tahr” 19 September 2018 Spotlight IoT Graphics: Mir Release 1.0 21 September 2018 Ubuntu is an open source software operating system that runs from the desktop, to the cloud, to all your internet connected things Cloud Server Containers Desktop IoT The world’s most popular operating system across public clouds and OpenStack clouds › Find out more about Ubuntu’s cloud building software, tools and service packages. The fastest way to go from development to production in IoT › Learn about how Ubuntu Core and snaps can help you build your connected devices. The number one platform for containers › From LXD to Kubernetes to Docker, Ubuntu can run your containers at scale. Fast, secure and simple, Ubuntu powers millions of PCs worldwide › Download the latest version of Ubuntu, for desktop PCs and laptops. Watch our Kubernetes webinars › A series of on-demand webinars to learn more about Canonical’s Distribution of Kubernetes. OpenStack costs increasing? › Keep control of costs with our four-step approach to OpenStack upgrades. Did you find what you were looking for? Thank you for your response. Tell us more using this quick online survey ›